Title: Mark Zuckerberg Redesigns Porsche Cayenne Turbo GT Into A Minivan For Wife Priscilla Chan, Gets A 911 GT3 For Himself
Source: Yahoo Finance
Date: 2024-10-08 10:23:20

Meta Platforms CEO Mark Zuckerberg is getting a Porsche Cayenne Turbo GT four-seater Coupé customized to be a minivan for his wife Priscilla Chan, the CEO revealed.
What Happened: “New side quest. Priscilla wanted a minivan, so I've been designing something I'm pretty sure should exist: a Porsche Cayenne Turbo GT Minivan,” Zuckerberg said in a post on Instagram on Sunday. The billionaire partnered with California-based auto shop West Coast Customs to make the coupe-to-minivan transition.
Don’t Miss:
Groundbreaking trading app with a ‘Buy-Now-Pay-Later' feature for stocks tackles the $644 billion margin lending market – here’s how to get equity in it with just $500
The global games market is projected to generate $272B by the end of the year — for $0.55/share, this VC-backed startup with a 7M+ userbase gives investors easy access to this asset market.
The CEO also got a Porsche 911 GT3 with a Touring package in the same gray shade as Chan’s Cayenne to complement the minivan.
“Threw in a manual GT3 Touring to make it his and hers,” Zuckerberg wrote in his Instagram post. The post was accompanied by pictures of the vehicles at West Coast Customs and also a selfie of the couple with the two Porsche vehicles.
The CEO also shared a short video of the customised vehicle which seems to sport sliding doors and an elongated body.
Trending: Amid the ongoing EV revolution, previously overlooked low-income communities now harbor a huge investment opportunity at just $500.
Why It Matters: The Cayenne Turbo GT starts at about $200,000 in the U.S. The 911 GT3 sports car, likewise, is priced to the higher end.
Zuckerberg has previously shared a similar picture featuring two classic Ford Bronco vehicles, one belonging to Chan and the other to him.
“His and hers,” Zuckerberg captioned the photograph from June 2022.
Check out more of Benzinga's Future Of Mobility coverage by following this link.
Read More:
Unlock a $400 billion opportunity by investing in the future of EV infrastructure on this startup already valued at $50 million with just $500.
‘Scrolling to UBI': Deloitte's #1 fastest-growing software company allows users to earn money on their phones – invest today with $1,000 for just $0.25/share
Photo courtesy: Chan Zuckerberg Initiative
Up Next: Transform your trading with Benzinga Edge's one-of-a-kind market trade ideas and tools. Click now to access unique insights that can set you ahead in today's competitive market.
Get the latest stock analysis from Benzinga?
This article Mark Zuckerberg Redesigns Porsche Cayenne Turbo GT Into A Minivan For Wife Priscilla Chan, Gets A 911 GT3 For Himself originally appeared on Benzinga.com
© 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.