Title: ‘Mag Seven’ Rally as Nvidia’s Winning Run Hits 13%: Markets Wrap
Source: Yahoo Finance
Date: 2024-10-08 10:24:45

(Bloomberg) -- A rally in the world’s largest technology companies drove stocks higher, with the market rebounding from its worst session in a month. A rout in Treasuries paused as traders waded through remarks from Federal Reserve officials.
Most Read from Bloomberg
Urban Heat Stress Is Another Disparity in the World’s Most Unequal Nation
From Cleveland to Chicago, NFL Teams Dream of Domed Stadiums
Singapore Ends 181 Years of Horse Racing to Make Way for Homes
What Do US Vehicle Regulators Have Against Tiny Cars?
For a Master of Brutalist Provocations, a Modest Museum Appraisal
The tech-heavy Nasdaq 100 rose 1.1%, with Nvidia Corp. extending a five-day rally to 13%. Apple Inc. climbed 1.5%. US-listed Chinese stocks tumbled as Beijing stopped short of launching more major stimulus, disappointing traders looking for more fuel for a world-beating stock rally. Treasuries saw small moves following a recent selloff, with shorter maturities outperforming.
Fed Governor Adriana Kugler said the US central bank should keep its focus on bringing inflation back to its 2% target, though with a “balanced approach” that avoids an “undesirable” slowdown in employment growth and economic expansion. Officials lowered their benchmark rate by a half point last month, a larger-than-anticipated move that Jerome Powell said was meant to protect a strong labor market.
“While stronger US jobs data (coupled with a firmer ISM Services release) bolster our confidence for a soft landing, the US data is not so strong that the Federal Reserve’s contribution to the global rate-cutting cycle looks set to end,” said Mark Haefele at UBS Global Wealth Management. “We therefore maintain our conviction for investors to position for lower rates.”
The S&P 500 rose to around 5,740. A Bloomberg gauge of the “Magnificent Seven” megacaps climbed about 1.5%. Honeywell International Inc. gained on plans to spin off its advanced materials division. Roblox Corp. dropped as Hindenburg Research said it’s betting against the gaming platform.
Treasury 10-year yields were little changed at 4.02%. West Texas Intermediate crude fell 4.4% to $73.75 a barrel. Oil prices could spike by $10 to $15 a barrel if Israel strikes Iranian export facilities, hedge fund manager Pierre Andurand predicted.
Mohamed El-Erian says that the guessing game that’s taking place over the Fed’s path for monetary policy is creating market volatility.
“Markets are all over the place. In the last 15 days the probability of a 50 basis point cut in November has gone from over 60% to zero. November is next month,” El-Erian, the president of Queens’ College, Cambridge, told Bloomberg Television on Tuesday.
“That is how much uncertainty there has been in this market. These are massive moves based on data points,” he added.
Yields have risen after a healthy decline and for now, this indicates the bond market is pricing in fewer rate cuts and not more, according to Michael Landsberg at Landsberg Bennett Private Wealth Management.
“Yields will likely stay range bound and even if they rise from here, they have plenty of upside room before rising yields start to negatively affect stock prices,” he said.
Corporate Highlights:
Hon Hai Precision Industry Co. plans to boost server capacity to meet stronger-than-anticipated demand for Nvidia Corp. chips used to develop AI, reflecting its expectations that spending on artificial intelligence will stay high.
DocuSign Inc. climbed after S&P Dow Jones Indices said that the e-signature company will join the S&P Midcap 400 Index before trading opens on Oct. 11.
PepsiCo Inc. trimmed its revenue outlook for the year as cash-strapped consumers, boycotts in the Middle East and a major recall hit volumes of its food and beverages.
Wells Fargo & Co. rose after Wolfe Research upgraded the lender to outperform from peer perform, noting that the “bad news is fully baked.”
WW International Inc. shares rose after the diet company said it would begin offering a copycat version of weight-loss drugs that costs far less than Novo Nordisk A/S’s Ozempic and Wegovy.
Key events this week:
Fed minutes, Wednesday
Fed’s Lorie Logan, Raphael Bostic, Austan Goolsbee and Mary Daly speak, Wednesday
US initial jobless claims, CPI, Thursday
Fed’s John Williams and Thomas Barkin speak, Thursday
JPMorgan, Wells Fargo kick off earnings season for the big Wall Street banks, Friday
US PPI, University of Michigan consumer sentiment, Friday
Fed’s Lorie Logan, Austan Goolsbee and Michelle Bowman speak, Friday
Some of the main moves in markets:
Stocks
The S&P 500 rose 0.7% as of 12:10 p.m. New York time
The Nasdaq 100 rose 1.1%
The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 0.2%
The MSCI World Index rose 0.2%
Bloomberg Magnificent 7 Total Return Index rose 1.2%
The Russell 2000 Index rose 0.3%
Currencies
The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index was little changed
The euro was little changed at $1.0972
The British pound was little changed at $1.3093
The Japanese yen was little changed at 148.15 per dollar
Cryptocurrencies
Bitcoin fell 1.4% to $62,126.43
Ether fell 1.1% to $2,415.69
Bonds
The yield on 10-year Treasuries was little changed at 4.02%
Germany’s 10-year yield declined one basis point to 2.24%
Britain’s 10-year yield declined two basis points to 4.18%
Commodities
West Texas Intermediate crude fell 4.4% to $73.75 a barrel
Spot gold fell 1.1% to $2,614.75 an ounce
This story was produced with the assistance of Bloomberg Automation.
Most Read from Bloomberg Businessweek
Hamas Struck Israel to Spark a Wider Conflict. A Year Later, It’s Got One
How Jellycat Plushies Became a Gen Z Obsession
Rate Cuts Need Time to Work Their Way Through the Economy
Rotting Rice in India Fuels Discontent About Modi’s Food Policy
Tax Cuts Pay for Themselves and Other Fairy Tales
©2024 Bloomberg L.P.