Title: Suze Orman Says The Personal Finance Of Americans Is 'Really, Really Bad' Even Though The Stock Market Is Doing Great
Source: Yahoo Finance
Date: 2024-10-08 10:24:28

In a recent conversation with Chris Wallace on CNN Max, Suze Orman highlighted that while the stock market is performing well, it doesn't reflect how most American households are really doing financially.
"What if I were to tell you that 75% of the people in the United States don’t have $400 to their name in case of an emergency?" Orman said, describing the financial situation of ordinary Americans as “really, really bad.”
Don't Miss:
How do billionaires pay less in income tax than you? Tax deferring is their number one strategy.
Can you guess how many retire with a $5,000,000 nest egg? – How does it compare to the average?
A billion-dollar investment strategy with minimums as low as $10 — you can become part of the next big real estate boom today.
Although we often use the stock market to measure economic health overall, Orman emphasizes that it doesn't reliably tell us how the everyday American is doing. “On the whole, ordinary human beings in America today are living paycheck to paycheck and they’re not doing well at all," she explained.
As household debts rise and reliance on credit cards increases, it's clear that individuals may be in a deeper financial crisis. Last summer, U.S. credit card debt surpassed $1 trillion for the first time, a milestone that Orman pointed to as a symptom of a much larger issue.
See Also: I’m 62 Years Old And Have $1.2 Million Saved. Is This Enough to Retire Stress-Free?
Even as some sectors of the economy show strength, Orman made it clear that inflation makes it difficult for most Americans to keep up. Wallace, taken aback by Orman's statistics, asked her to elaborate on what she described as a "financial pandemic."
"We're in a pandemic in that there isn't a financial vaccine to cure this," Orman explained, adding that the crisis won't be resolved by external forces. The only way forward, she argues, is for individuals to take responsibility for their financial well-being. "The government's not gonna save them. The economy is not gonna save them. They’re gonna have to be their own financial vaccine so to speak."
Trending: Founder of Personal Capital and ex-CEO of PayPal re-engineers traditional banking with this new high-yield account — start saving better today.
Orman's stark warning reflects a growing disconnect between market performance and individual financial health. While stock market gains might boost portfolios for wealthier Americans, many face difficult choices, living paycheck to paycheck with little to no safety net.
A recent MarketWatch survey corroborates Orman, stating that nearly two-thirds of Americans feel like they are living paycheck to paycheck. The report statistics were pulled by nearly 48% of people earning $100,000 or more annually and 36% earning $200,000 or more.
In response to this crisis, Orman has cofounded SecureSave, a business that addresses one critical component of personal finance: emergency savings. Through this business, Orman hopes to help people build a financial cushion that can protect them in times of need.
Trending: Beating the market through ethical real estate investing' — this platform aims to give tenants equity in the homes they live in while scoring 17.17% average annual returns for investors – here’s how to join with just $100
"The goal of money is for you to be secure," Orman told Wallace. She explained that SecureSave partners with employers to allow workers to automatically save a portion of their paycheck, making it easier to build an emergency fund without thinking too much about it.
With the program, employees can save small amounts, such as $25 per paycheck, and some employers offer to match a portion of those contributions. “Within a year period of time, they have about $1,000,” Orman noted, adding that the goal isn't to amass large sums right away but rather to establish a savings habit that can lead to bigger habits like saving for retirement.
Trending: The global games market is projected to generate $272B by the end of the year — for $0.55/share, this VC-backed startup with a 7M+ userbase gives investors easy access to this asset market.
These emergency savings accounts are FDIC-insured and employees can access the money whenever needed.
The stock market may be doing well, which is great for retirement and investment accounts, but many people don't have the basics of emergency savings. Orman's message is that security doesn't come from market gains – not that it can't help – but from building healthy financial habits like emergency savings that can provide stability in uncertain times.
If you're facing financial uncertainty and unsure where to start building security with your own finances, consider speaking with a financial advisor. They will offer advice tailored to your unique situation and help you determine a plan that matches your financial goals.
Editor’s note: This story has been updated with additional details. 
Read Next:
Can you guess how many Americans successfully retire with $1,000,000 saved? The percentage may shock you.
Amid the ongoing EV revolution, previously overlooked low-income communities now harbor a huge investment opportunity at just $500.
Up Next: Transform your trading with Benzinga Edge's one-of-a-kind market trade ideas and tools. Click now to access unique insights that can set you ahead in today's competitive market.
Get the latest stock analysis from Benzinga?
APPLE (AAPL): Free Stock Analysis Report
TESLA (TSLA): Free Stock Analysis Report
This article Suze Orman Says The Personal Finance Of Americans Is 'Really, Really Bad' Even Though The Stock Market Is Doing Great originally appeared on Benzinga.com
© 2024 Benzinga.com. Benzinga does not provide investment advice. All rights reserved.